welcome to vlsi lecture series i
professor it is dulakia is going to
explain you
dynamic cmos in this video and there are
some advantages which is there with
dynamic cmos over
static cmos that we will discuss it
later
let me explain you the basic circuit
structure which is there with dynamic
cmos first
so in its circuit structure first we
have vdd supply over here
after that there is pmos which is
gated clock pmos so here we give clock
signal to this pmos
after that there is pull down network
and this pull down network that is made
up of
nmos let us say this is having some
boolean function which is having
inputs and those inputs are k number of
inputs
after that there is another
nmos gated clock and mos so here
we have nmos that is of gated clock and
mos
and in this we take output from this
terminal
and that we can connect it to any other
digital circuit
and with that if i say my load
capacitance
that is cl then this is what basic
structure which is there with dynamic
cmos
now i'll explain you how
circuit wise this dynamic cmos is better
compared to static cmos
so if you observe static cmos structure
then
in static cmos structure we were been
having
vdd supply after that
there was pull up network
that is having pmos let us say
inputs are there and those inputs are
k number of inputs after that there was
pull
down network and in pull down network
we've been having nmos and again
with this pull down network we have
k number of inputs and after that we
have
ground and we were been taking output
from this terminal
so that is how static cmos structure
that we have seen
now here let us compare this to
structure
with respect to number of transistors so
if you observe
dynamic cmos in that if you calculate
total number of pmos
then you see in this total
one pmos is there and if you calculate
total number of nmos
then you see k number of input nmos is
there plus 1
clocked nmos is there so total k
plus 1 number of nmos are there right
and as if you talk about static cmos
number of
transistors in that case you see pull up
network is there with pmos
so as per k inputs total pmos are k
and pull down network is having nmos and
as per k
in mode nmos are
k so number of transistors
that is way greater in static cmos
compared to dynamic cmos that one can
say as well as
here you see we avoid pmos fabrication
in its structure
so here less number of pmos are there
with dynamic cmos
so because of less number of pmos in
dynamic cmos
here total size as well as capacitive
loading will be less as well as you can
find
switching characteristic is faster in
dynamic cmos
so that is what the basic case which is
there with dynamic cmos now
i'll explain you dynamic cmos inverter
and then we will see how dynamic cmos
functions
so as we have seen the basic structure
here in dynamic cmos inverter we have
vdd supply
after that pmos gated clock
that we need to have so here we provide
clock
after that pull down network is there in
that there is only
1 and mos 4 inverator so here we give
input after that we have
gated clock nmos over here
and then we connect this to ground and
we take output from this terminal
and here we have load capacitance
cl so this is a basic circuit which we
have
for dynamic cmos inverter
now as if we talk about its working
then to understand it's working first
i'll explain you there are basically two
modes in which this circuit functions
first mode that is pre-charging mode
and second mode that is evaluation mode
i'll explain you how these two modes are
there for that
we will see timing diagram
so in timing diagram here we will be
having
clock signal that we will observe with
respect to time
after that i will show you timing
diagram of input
that is even we will evaluate with
respect to time
and then here we will observe our output
with respect to time and i will explain
you
how these two modes are associated
now see here in this clock we will be
giving
clock signal so clock signal will be
like this
in that this is what logic zero of clock
that one can say
this is logic one of clock this is logic
zero of clock and this is logic one of
clock
and here we give input that is logic
high
for this time period and logic low
for this time period right
now i'll explain you how this circuit
functions
in two different modes pre-charging mode
and evaluation mode
now you see let us consider first case
where clock is equals to 0 and input is
equals to 1
so now you see clock is equals to 0
and input is equals to 1 so this
pmos that will get on and this pmos that
will get off
and this pmos that will get on but as
this pmos is off
this load capacitance that will charge
via this pmos like this so this load
capacitance
that will get charged by voltage vdd
right so here load capacitance that is
getting charged
to voltage vdd and that is referred as
pre-charging mode
right and you see here
why pre-charging is happening so
see before we evaluate what is our
output
first there will be pre-charging
that happens right and
here we don't evaluate what is our
output right
the reason is even though if input is
zero
this output that will get charged right
to vdd
so here first output voltage that will
get charged
via pmos like this now you see
what will happen as if input is one and
clock is equals to one so when input is
one
so at that time this nmos that will get
on and this pmos
that will get off and this nmos that
will get on
so whatever charge which is that in this
cl
that will get discharged via this loop
and it will get grounded over here right
so your output that will start to
discharge
right and that discharging that is
depending on the resultant resistance
which is there with this circuit
and it will be having output which is
logic 0 over here right so we can say
output is logic 0
and input is logic 1 so this is working
as inverter
now you see in third case
our clock is equals to zero and input is
equals to zero
so when clock is equals to zero this
will get on
and this will get off and input is
equals to zero so this will be even off
so again this load capacitance that will
get start
to charge via this pmos like this
right so you will be observing your
load capacitance that will get start to
charge so output will
increase with respect to charging time
constant which is associated with this
pmos
and it will acquire vdd voltage
right and here you see again
what we do here we don't evaluate our
output
right here we are just charging load
capacitance so here again three charging
is happening
and now in fourth case
we have clock that is equals to one and
input is equals to 0
so when clock is equals to 1 this will
get off
and this will get on and
input is equals to 0 so this will get
off so as this is off
this load capacitance does not find
a path to get discharge so that will
acquire
its voltage vdd only right during this
state
but here if you observe our output
is having that open circuit
at input side over here so it will stay
in high impedance mode
so here you will be having output logic
one
but output logic one
that is there along with high
impedance mode so output
is there
with high impedance
why output is there with high impedance
the reason is this is there in open
circuit
so this cl that does not find a part to
get discharge
right so it will be there in
high impedance mode and logic 1
so here you see what we do
here input is 0
and output is 1 and here input is 1
output is zero so here we do
evaluation
so basically pre-charging that happens
when clock is equals to zero
and evaluation that is done when
clock is equals to 1
so that is how dynamic cmos is working
but here if you observe there are some
issues which is there with this circuit
see issue number one is when output is
logic high
at a time it is there in high impedance
mode and high impedance mode
is more prone to noise
immunity right so noise immunity that
will be less
in case of high impedance mode which is
there at output side
so this is one issue which is there with
dynamic cmos
but if you observe as per the basic
discussion which we have done
earlier total number of pmos
that is less compared to this static
cmos circuit here only one pmos
is there right so that is one basic
advantage which is there with dynamic
cmos
now what i'll do is i'll explain you
the basic advantages and disadvantages
which is there with dynamic cmos
so when we talk about advantages then
you see
for one stage of dynamic cmos
maximum output is vdd and minimum output
is ground
right so we can say voh that is vdd
and vol that is 0 so it has
maximum voltage swing at output side
now if you observe it's working then in
its working you find
that in on and off state at output side
you will be finding
there is no steady state current
so steady state current that is 0
in output is equals to zero as well as
one
now if you observe in its structure
in that case you will be finding
compared to static cmos
number of pmos are very less it has only
one pmos
and because of it has only one pmos its
switching speed
is fast and
you will be finding as pmos is larger in
size and it has only one pmos
so circuit size of dynamic cmos that
will be
small so these are
the advantages which is there with
dynamic cmos one more advantage that one
can say
it has less capacitance loading compared
to
static cmos
now i'll discuss disadvantages which is
there
with dynamic cmos so when we talk about
disadvantages
then in its working i have explained
when you have output at logic 1
it is there in high impedance mode which
is more
affected by noise
and if you observe it's working
then here this dynamic cmos that cannot
work without having pre-charging so
pre-charging
is compulsory to have a working
of dynamic cmos
now there are some more issues that i'll
be going to discuss in
my future videos dynamic cmos
is having a problem of cascading
so that i'll explain you in my next
video it has a problem regarding
cascading
and dynamic cmos faces
a problem of race so that even i'll
explain you in my future videos
so it has a race problem
so these are the disadvantages and
advantages which is there with dynamic
cmos
i hope that you have understood this
this cascading issue
and race problem that i'll be going to
explain you in my next video so just
stay tuned with this channel
thank you so much for watching this
video please do give your valuable
suggestions the reason is your
suggestions matters to me and based on
that in future i'll be making videos
which will be solving your queries so
please do give your valuable suggestions
thank you so much